An OPAC (Online Public Access Catalog) is the system that library patrons interact with to search for library materials. It is what users see and use in the library “card catalog computer” or on their web browser. The OPAC allows users to search the library’s collection, view details about items, and in our library, check availability and place reserves. 
A relational database stores data in tables that are connected to each other. In a library setting it could have information on titles, authors, subjects, etc. This works with the OPAC since the searches pull information from the table to show results to user.
Going to the step by step instructions it made sense to show how the searches connected to the code. "select * from Meals where vegetarian = TRUE;” from the lecture showed that the search would pull information and only display results that were vegeterian from the specified search. The cataloging structure is set up so that users can filter results based on desired values. Some patrons may want to search by title whereas some would be interested in searching by title. For practical catalogging and searching more fields and information would be added to the database. Searching in the database on the barebones level isn’t as user friendly since the values must be exact and everything from the puncuation and capitalization matters in the searches. As I said in the discussion post the cataloging section went without a hitch but I had to repeat the OPAC steps twice. I think it came down to me not saving the html file correctly. Working through these exercises helped me understand a lot more about how databases and websites work together. MySQL is the repository for the informaion and SQL is used to summon the information or organize things. OPACs and cataloging are important to databses because that is how users find their information. 
http://34.75.80.108/mylibrary.htmlLinks to an external site. 

http://34.75.80.108/cataloging/index.htmlLinks to an external site.

username: libcat and the password: libcat
